In this lesson, we will add an animation of the death of our character and also modify
the health component. The life we ​​have now can be negative. Let's fix it all up.
Let's start with a function that will determine whether our character is dead or not. Let's make it also
available in blueprints. Add the UFUNCTION macro, the BlueprintCallable specifier.
Let's call our function IsDead. It will return false or true.
We add the const specifier and the condition under which our character died is quite simple.
He will be dead if and only if the health value is less than or equal to zero.
Next, let's declare a delegate that will notify our character whether we are dead or not.
To do this, we write DECLARE_MULTICAST_DELEGATE. This delegate will only be available in C ++.
We call it FOnDeath. Do not forget that all delegates must begin with the letter F. Create a delegate
in the public section of the health component. Let's call it OnDeath and call this delegate when our life value
is less than or equal to zero. Go to the health component .cpp file. Let's remove the damage type
header files. We did this only for testing, we don't need it anymore. Also remove
all logic from the damage type. And let's delete the damage log as well. At the beginning of the OnTakeAnyDamage function,
let's add a check for two conditions: the first condition - if the damage value is less than or equal to zero,
then we immediately exit the function. This is such a sanity check for ourselves, so as not to increase life if
suddenly we receive negative damage and the second condition - if we are already dead, we also exit the function,
because our health is already 0 and it makes no sense to make any further calculations with it ...
Next, decrease the health value by the amount of damage. The following situation is possible here: the health variable
is equal to one, and the damage value is 10, and then the result is -9.
This satisfies the condition we wrote in the IsDead function. That is, yes, we are dead. The health value is less than 0,
but, for example, the text component will receive -9 in the update and display this in the game. Therefore, let's
not allow health to be less than zero. Let's use a special function that is available
in the FMath class. It's called Clamp. This function is template. The type of the class used
in the template will be inferred automatically by the compiler. In our case, it will be float. Clamp takes three
arguments. The first is the value of a certain variable, and the second, third argument is the boundaries of the segment
on which this variable can exist, and if the value of the variable is in this
segment, then clamp will simply return this variable. If the value of the variable is less than the left border,
then the left border will be returned, if it is greater than the right border, then the right border will be returned.
And, thus, we are confident that the next health value we will have in the range from zero to MaxHealth.
After we changed the value of health, we need to check once again whether we are alive or not, that is ,
we call the IsDead function, if the health value is less than or equal to 0,
then we call the Broadcast function of our delegate OnDeath, so we will notify
all clients who are subscribed to given delegate that our character died.
Let's go to the character class and subscribe to this delegate in the BeginPlay function.
We find our OnDeath delegate in the health component and make a bind function that will be responsible in the character
for the death of the character. Our delegate will only be used in C +, so for bind we
have to use the AddUObject function. We specify our character object as the first parameter - we pass the this pointer,
and the second parameter is a pointer to the function that we will now create. Let's call it OnDeath.
Let's start by creating the body of the function. Let's add it to the end of the character.
It returns nothing and there are no parameters either. The signature completely matches
the delegate and also add the function declaration to the header file in the private section.
And let's just display a message in the OnDeath function that our character died.
Let's print the message "player is dead" and add character as the name. To do this, we will use the GetName function.
Don't forget about the * operator, which turns FString
into a TCHAR array. Launch editor and see what we get.
Click play. We run into the red sphere. Lives are decreasing. Became equal to 0. Negative values
no longer appear. We can also check the log. The message "player ... is dead" was printed.
Let's go to the External Content directory. In animation.
We have a Death animation. We would like to turn it on when our character dies.
That is, when its health value is equal to zero. Let's go to our animation blueprint first.
Let's look at the state machine that we have. The first thing that comes to mind: we can create
an additional state, call it Death. We have an IsDead function. And by analogy, we can
make an additional flag by which we will move from each state to a new state of death.
But this is extremely inefficient, because when adding a new state to the state machine, we will have to
add an arrow to our death state, that is, we can get to the death state from any other state.
For such situations, there is a special kind of asset called AnimMontage. You can create it by clicking
on the asset of interest to us and select create -> create anim montage from the menu. Let's call it AM_Death.
And we will transfer it to the folder with our animations.
This asset is used to combine various animations, that is, we can add several animations
to the timeline that we want to play in a row, but we are interested in another feature of this type of assets.
It lies in the fact that we can play this animation directly from the code, or from the blueprint,
without resorting to the animation graph. Let's create a property where we will install this
animation asset. Let's make this property available only in the default settings.
And assign it the "Animation" category. The C ++ class that corresponds to this asset
is called UAnimMontage. Let's call the pointer to this type DeathAnimMontage.
We go to the .cpp file, into the function that handles the death of the character. To play animation montage
, the ACharacter class has a function called PlayAnimMontage. It takes several parameters.
We are now only interested in the first one - this is the pointer to the animation that we want to play. Also, we can
not check the given pointer for validity, because this check already exists inside the function.
Launch editor.
Open the character's blueprint. Our section with animations has appeared. Install the AM_Death asset.
Let's temporarily change the distance our camera is at so that we can see the death animation better.
Compile. We launch.
We run into the red sphere. Life value is 0, we kind of died, but no animation plays.
In order for the animation montage to play, we need to make small changes to our animation graph.
Let's add a node called slot. The node works as follows: if no
animation montage is playing, then at the output we get the pose simply from source, and if the
animation montage is playing, then at the output we get an interpolation between the pose of the source
and the pose of the animation montage. Also notice the SlotName node parameter.
It is important that this parameter is synchronized with the same parameter in the animation montage.
Editing can be quite difficult to set up, but this is beyond the scope of our current course. So, let's check.
The death animation plays, but after the animation ends, the pose reverts back. Let's tweak that as well.
Go back to our animation montage, to the details panel and find the EnableAutoBlendOut parameter.
If we set this property to false, then our animated asset will stop
and the pose will not change. So, let's check again. We run into the sphere. The animation has played and we are left
on the last frame of the animation, but our character still has control and we are moving
our crucified character. Let's fix it all up. We continue to work in our OnDeath function.
Let's stop all traffic. To do this, we call a function of the motion component called DisableMovement.
The pointer to the motion component can be obtained using a character function
called GetCharacterMovement. And also add the destruction of our character 5 seconds after death.
To do this, we will use a function called SetLifeSpan. We do not check the pointer of the motion
component for nullptr. Let's add a check to the BeginPlay function for this component too. Launch the editor.
Let's check how everything works for us now. So our character died and our keys don't work.
We don't move. Five seconds passed and the Destroy function of our character was called.
Let's improve our code a bit. Let's add an additional delegate with one parameter.
We use the DECLARE_MULTICAST_DELEGATE_OneParam macro for this.
We name the delegate FOnHealthChanged. And the type of the parameter will be float.
We will call this delegate when our character's lives change.
Add a delegate to the .h file of the health component and name it OnHealthChaged.
Go to the .cpp file. The first time we have lives installed on BeginPlay,
so immediately after assigning lives , we must call this delegate with the Health parameter.
And the second time this delegate will be called when
our lives change when dealing damage.
We do all this in terms of optimization.
In the character class, we can remove the logic for updating the text in the component from the Tick function.
Bind the new function to the newly created OnHealthChanged delegate and change the value of the text in the component
in this function . This way, we will only update the text when
the life value actually changes, rather than resetting it every frame.
We call our function OnHealthChanged. Go to the .h file.
We declare a function.
It will have one parameter of the float type, which is responsible for life.
We create the body of the function. We are doing all this routine work.
We transfer the function that sets the text with Tick to our OnHealthChanged function. And just delete the second line.
We don't need it. Checking. And we have life = 0 by default, but when we receive damage, the
lives are updated correctly. This behavior was not accidental for us. The reason lies
in the order in which BeginPlay is called on the actor and on its components. First, BeginPlay is called
for all the components of the actor, and only then the BeginPlay of the actor itself.
Therefore, when the OnHealthChanged delegate is called in the health component with the MaxHealth parameter, our function in character
has not yet been added, so to fix this, we will explicitly call this function on BeginPlay
. As an argument, we will pass the life value, which we will receive using the GetHealth function of the health component.